In this lecture,
I want to show you how to use IAM Roles
using Service Accounts on Kubernetes,
which is a feature of EKS.
EKS supports IAM roles for service accounts,
or abbreviated, IRSA.
With this feature
you can specify IAM policies at a pod level.
For example, one specific pod in the cluster
can access an s3 bucket,
but others cannot.
Previously, IAM polices would have to be set up
on the worker level, using EC2 instance roles.
So that means that, you would set one IAM policy
and all the pods, for example, could access s3.
With IAM Roles for Service Accounts,
it lets you hand out permissions on a more granular level.
So on a pod level.
So you can say, one pod can have access to s3,
the other pod cannot have access to s3
or to a specific bucket,
depending on the IAM policy you are going to use.
One major caveat, the app running in the container
that uses the AWS SDK, must have a recent SDK
to be able to work with these credentials.
What SDK and libraries to use,
is explained in the last documentation.
So if you want to use this feature,
it's best to check the documentation
on these IAM Roles for Service Accounts
and it will be explained.
IAM Roles for Service Accounts
uses the IAM OpenID Connect provider, OIDC
that EKS exposes.
To link an IAM Role with a Service Account,
you need to add an annotation to the Service Account.
So this is how it looks.
You have a IAM definition for a Service Account,
and then the annotation
which specifies the role ARN
that you want to use for that Service Account.
And then you link your Service Account to a pod
and then the pod can use that role.
The EKS Pod Identity Webhook
will then automatically inject environment variables
into the pod that have this Service Account assigned.
So when the pods starts,
it will inject the environment variables
AWS_ROLE_ARN and AWS_WEB_IDENTITY_TOKEN_FILE
These environment variables
will be picked up by the AWS SDK during authentication.
Let me show you that in a diagram,
so that it is easier to understand.
So here, on left, you have the Kube-apiserver.
In the Kube-apiserver,
you have a Mutating admission controller.
So whenever a pod is launched,
it is triggered.
And then AWS has
the Amazon EKS pod identity Webhook configured
here on the left in green.
This Webhook will then executed whenever a pod is launched.
Then in the middle here we have a pod
with a Service Account,
and the Service Account has the role annotated
that you want to use.
So when we launch this pod,
then the Webhook will be executed,
the Webhook will inject the environment variables
AWS_ROLE_ARN and AWS_WEB_IDENTITY_TOKEN_FILE.
In the TOKEN_FILE you will then find JWT.
And then the alias JDK
will read those variables,
the AWS_ROLE_ARN and the TOKEN_FILE
and then it can assume this role
using this WEB_IDENTITY_TOKEN_FILE.
So this WEB_IDENTITY_TOKEN_FILE is a JWT,
basically it can go to STS
assume this role,
and then it will get credentials
that it can then use to, for example,
access AWS Service like s3.
This is it in a nutshell.
In the next demo,
I will show you how that works
on our EKS cluster.